Sthorpe/securing data in transit in rest in use (#14330)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/reference-architecture/diagrams/security/securing-data-in-use.md

---
title: Securing data in use
pcx_content_type: reference-architecture-diagram
weight: 1
meta:
  title: "Reference Architecture Diagram: Securing data in use"
---

# Securing data in use

## Introduction

Data in use refers to data that is actively being processed, manipulated, or used by applications or systems. Protecting data in use is challenging because it must be accessible and in a usable state for applications and users, yet it should still be protected against unauthorized access or tampering. 

> Today, a vast majority of data being used by users takes place inside a browser. The capabilities of the modern browser allow entire client applications to be written, such as email clients, word processors, and spreadsheets. This also means no software needs to be installed on the device and the ability to copy and paste, or download sensitive data is relatively easy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, a vast majority of data being used by users takes place inside a browser. The capabilities of the modern browser allow entire client applications to be written, such as email clients, word processors, and spreadsheets. This also means no software needs to be installed on the device and the ability to copy and paste or download sensitive data is relatively easy.
```

> One method to secure data in use, is to have greater control over the browser used to access applications and data. Cloudflare approached this by building a headless browser solution on our massive edge network, it's called [Remote Browser Isolation](/cloudflare-one/policies/browser-isolation/) (RBI). When a user attempts to access either a privately hosted resource, or a public Internet resource, Cloudflare enforces access via a browser which runs on the Cloudflare network. A small Javascript client then runs in the user's local browser which uses HTTPS and WebRTC to communicate the vectors from the web content running in the remote browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One method to secure data in use is to have greater control over the browser used to access applications and data. Cloudflare approached this by building a headless browser solution on our massive edge network, it's called [Remote Browser Isolation](/cloudflare-one/policies/browser-isolation/) (RBI). When a user attempts to access either a privately hosted resource, or a public Internet resource, Cloudflare enforces access via a browser which runs on the Cloudflare network. A small Javascript client then runs in the user's local browser which uses HTTPS and WebRTC to communicate the vectors from the web content running in the remote browser.
```

> One method to secure data in use, is to have greater control over the browser used to access applications and data. Cloudflare approached this by building a headless browser solution on our massive edge network, it's called [Remote Browser Isolation](/cloudflare-one/policies/browser-isolation/) (RBI). When a user attempts to access either a privately hosted resource, or a public Internet resource, Cloudflare enforces access via a browser which runs on the Cloudflare network. A small Javascript client then runs in the user's local browser which uses HTTPS and WebRTC to communicate the vectors from the web content running in the remote browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One method to secure data in use, is to have greater control over the browser used to access applications and data. Cloudflare approached this by building a headless browser solution on our massive edge network called [Remote Browser Isolation](/cloudflare-one/policies/browser-isolation/) (RBI). When a user attempts to access either a privately hosted resource or a public Internet resource, Cloudflare enforces access via a browser that runs on the Cloudflare network. A small Javascript client then runs in the user's local browser that uses HTTPS and WebRTC to communicate the vectors from the web content running in the remote browser.
```

## Protecting data in use with Cloudflare RBI

> Cloudflare RBI effectively creates an invisible “gap” between a user’s web browser and the endpoint device thereby protecting the device and the network it is connected to from exploits and attacks. Unlike secure web gateways, antivirus software, or firewalls which rely on known threat patterns or signatures, RBI is a genuine zero trust mechanism. Because all requests made by an RBI instance go through the Cloudflare Secure Web Gateway, it's possible to enforce access policies to data and also, inspect the contents of traffic to enforce any data in transit policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloudflare RBI effectively creates an invisible “gap” between a user’s web browser and the endpoint device, thereby protecting the device and the network it is connected to from exploits and attacks. Unlike secure web gateways, antivirus software, or firewalls, which rely on known threat patterns or signatures, RBI is a genuine zero trust mechanism. Because all requests made by an RBI instance go through the Cloudflare Secure Web Gateway, it's possible to enforce access policies to data and also inspect the contents of traffic to enforce any data in transit policies.
```

> But ultimately the content is delivered to the remote browser, where we can then apply data in use access controls such as limiting the ability to download/upload data, copy and paste and prevent printing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ultimately the content is delivered to the remote browser, where Cloudflare can then apply data in use access controls such as limiting the ability to download/upload data, copy and paste, and prevent printing.
```
